Reggie Meisler 

I’ve known Shane Johns for over 20 years. Shane is smart, creative, passionate about everything he puts his mind to, and has serious grit. Both Shane and I grew up in families without a lot of money, but Shane had the added struggle of having a less stable home life than me, and has maybe hit a lot of bumps in the road of life as a result. If there’s anything I can say about Shane it is that he has heart and perseverance. This is a guy coming to you, not as a naive kid trying to get a decent start in software, but as someone who has been around the block and understands the value that your program is presenting to him, and has the ambition and drive to make it count.

—
Reggie Meisler
Staff Software Engineer at Firework


-------
Adam Armada Lindren
My name is Adam Lindgren and I first met Shane well over a decade ago since we both shared a common interest in Melee, a video game we both competed in for several years.

My personal experience with Shane has been positive, we could have tons of fun together but I also would say he absolutely was supporting in quite a few ways. As an extremely competitive person, especially back than, he could be very understanding and trying to make things better if things went bad.

While my contact with Shane has been much more limited for many years and only been through online, since I live in Sweden, I always got the feeling that at his core he wants to do better and he owns up to his mistakes.

Making mistakes are hard, owning up to them is arguably even harder. Shane has made mistakes but I truly get the feeling he is not running from them, he is facing them and trying to make amends and turn his life around completely.

The first step to solve a problem is to truly recognize there is a problem and after that wanna change it. With that said I believe Shane would be a good fit for Next Chapter and I sincerely hope he gets a chance to once and for all become the best version of himself

/Adam Lindgren


-----

Alex Elert 

In 2017, I was new to Oregon, having just relocated from the Midwest, and after getting established, I began attending tournaments for my favorite competitive video game. Shane Walter Johns was a known community member in the Super Smash Bros. scene, attending tournaments at local card shops and the like, and together we were a part of a community of 20 & 30-somethings who shared a common interest and hobby. Shane was well-liked by those who knew him, and was even something of a minor celebrity within the community, as his performances as one of the best players in the state earned him both recognition and even some notoriety.

For the next 2 years, I regularly attended tournaments in the metro and got to know Shane as we spent time during smoke breaks, chatting outside of the tournament venue. I am known to appreciate deep conversations, so as I got to know him, it became obvious that Shane was a unique mind. Every time we hang out as friends, I hear some novel idea or phrase from him that I've never encountered before. He is delightfully imaginative, creative, and clever. He's also very bright, and picks up on new concepts or ideas quickly. One can always tell when someone else is genuinely listening to you as opposed to waiting for their turn to speak. His natural curioisty for the world extends to each waking moment, as he is constantly absorbed in learning and improving on new skills.

This enthusiasm extends to his treatments towards others, which sometimes manifests in the form of a protector. During Shane's recent hardships, I was one of the people who occassionally saw him, and even housed him for a time while he was in and out of treatment. He was almost always preoccupied with the well-being and concern of his friends and his longtime on-again/off-again girlfriend. This concern could in some cases come at the suspension of self-concern, and I witnessed a number of instances in which Shane's questionable (impaired) judgements greatly exaggerated his risk factor in several ways.

My impression is that his experiences as a homeless person had desensitized himself to his own well-being, and the fact that all of his energy was fed on by others in his social circle was, in some cases, because those people took advantage of Shane and his goodwill and abused it. A more selfish person, in my opinion, would not have as much integrity as I witnessed in Shane during this period. This is based on my irregular encounters into his world in recent years, in which only Shane's sheer willpower was the deciding factor between success and failure, even as he carried the needs and wants of others before himself.

Caring is the word I would ultimately land on for Shane. In his work, his hobbies, and his friends, and now, after rehabilitation, that care extends to some much-needed self-compassion. After hitting rock-bottom, some unique souls achieve self-actualization, and I basically couldn't imagine a better soul to bet on than Shane. His unique worldview and experiences combined with his exemplary prose and unparalled metacognitive skillset means he is basically in the perfect "tabula rasa" for a program such as Next Chapter.